
## 1. Three differente virtual containers by IP or Domain Name | Step-By-Step

 * Prerequisites. 
   * [Apache Server 2.4.18 Installation](https://github.com/ddufale/Network-Services-Management/blob/master/Apache%202.4.18%20on%20Ubuntu%2016.04%20LTS/Install%20Apache%202.4.8.md)
   * All the directives and concepts could be read on the oficial [Apache website](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/), so that we will dispense with this knowledge trhough this step-by-step document.
 
##

Our root document (the main directory on which Apache will search our content to show) will be configured with individual 
directories within the **/var/www** path. We'll create our directories for our three virtual containers we want to configure.

  **1.** Open a terminal and type the following lines to create our directories to be configured
  
      sudo mkdir -p /var/www/point_1/agua.com/public_html
      sudo mkdir -p /var/www/point_1/leche.com/public_html
      sudo mkdir -p /var/www/point_1/refresco.com/public_html

_"/point_1" refers to the first task to be achieved so that we will create a individual directory for this using the -p flag_

If you are using some different user from root, you need to modify the current user read permissions over our created directories 
to be able of deploying their content. If you are not, go to the third step.

  **2.** Type the following line on the terminal
      
      sudo chown -R $USER:$USER /var/www/point_1/agua.com/public_html
      
  _Do the same for the remaining directories_
  
  **3.** Use the following line to change the read permissions to our main directory

      sudo chmod -R 755 /var/www/point_1/
      
Now, our server has the necessary and corresponding permissions to deploy his content and to be edited by the current root user or other.

  **4.** Create a test page for each virtual container
  
   * Type the follwoing lines to create and add some html content the test pages for each virtual container
            
            sudo nano /var/www/point_1/agua.com/public_html/index.html
            
   * HTML content to be added
            
            <html>
              <head>
                <title>Bienvenido a agua.com!</title>
              </head>
              <body>
                <h1>Éxito! El Virtual Host agua.com esta funcionando!</h1>
              </body>
            </html>
            
  __** Do the same for the remaining directory ("leche.com" and "refresco.com"), but not forget to change the content
  to show different pages.**__

The Virtual Host files contain specific information and configuration for each domain and tell to Apache how to respond
for specific requests from different domains.


  **5.** Create the configuration file for each virtual host corresponding to each domain name. The configuration file _domain_name.conf_ will be our main point to place the specific information so that Apache will use to knwo how to respond. We will create three of them for each of the corresponding three virtual hosts we want to enable on Apache.
  
   * Type the following line to create the file
        
          sudo nano /etc/apache2/sites-available/agua.com.conf 
   
   * Add the following content to the file created
          
          <VirtualHost *:80>
            ServerAdmin admin@agua.com
            ServerName agua.com
            ServerAlias www.agua.com
            DocumentRoot /var/www/point_1/agua.com/public_html
            ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/point_1/agua.com/error.log
            CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/point_1/agua.com/access.log combined
          </VirtualHost>
    
    * Save, exit. 
    * Last, create a indivual directory to place the error log and access log corresponding to each domain name. It is very useful to pull apart every access.log and error.log with indivual directories for each one of your virtual hosts created. Here, we will create our directory for agua.com.
    
            sudo mkdir -p /var/log/apache2/point_1/agua.com
            
    * _Do the same for the remaining sites (leche.com and refresco.com)_
    
    
  **6.** Then, Apache needs to know what sites are enabled on its configuration (**/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/**)to serve them so you need to enable these sites by typing the follwing lines. This lines will be linked to the previous configuration file on path **/etc/apache2/sites-available/**
      
      sudo a2ensite agua.com.conf 
      sudo a2ensite leche.com.conf 
      sudo a2ensite refresco.com.conf 
    
      
   You will need to reload o restart Apache Server by typing the follwing line on terminal
        
        sudo service apache2 reload
  
  **7.** After that, you need to add some lines to your **/etc/hosts** file so that your computer can resolve from domain name to its corresponding server ip address
  
   * Open the /etc/hosts file by typing the following line
      
          sudo nano /etc/hosts
   
   * Then, add these lines to especify your IP address and the domain name to be mapped
   
           ...
           yourip    www.agua.com
           yourip    www.leche.com
           yourip    www.refresco.com
           ...
          
   Save and exit.
   
 **8.** Lastly, you only need to test entering each domain name on your browser.
   
   
   
   
   
   
