
## 3. Three web resources using HTTPS

* Prerequisites. 
   * [Apache Server 2.4.18 Installation](https://github.com/ddufale/Network-Services-Management/blob/master/Apache%202.4.18%20on%20Ubuntu%2016.04%20LTS/Install%20Apache%202.4.8.md)
   * All the directives and concepts could be read on the oficial [Apache website](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/), so that we will dispense with this knowledge trhough this step-by-step document.
   
##

Apache 2.4 version was built with the structure of modules to extend its capabilities. On this step-by-step we will be using this concept to complete this task.

Apache allows the capability to identify your websites by using signs and certificates. Intenert is owned by websites but some of them are complete systems which they complement their funcionalities with databases or other third party fucnitons to manage crucial and cofidential data.

## So, let's get started


### Activate the SSL Module and Create The Key and Certificate

  **1.** We simply need to enable this module to take advantage of SSL on our web system  to have the function of **https**.
 
   * Open a terminal to enable the module by typing:

          sudo a2enmod ssl
          
   * Then, reload apache with the following line
          
          sudo service apache2 reload
          
   * Last, create a directory for the key and certificate files. You could create at any location on your system but to hold the this configuration on we create it relate to Apache location installation. 
          
          sudo mkdir /etc/apache2/ssl
          
  **2.** Create a Self-Signed SSL Certificate. It refers to us as a CA (Certificate Authority) but not validated.
  
   * Now that we have a place for key and certificate, we create them
          
          sudo openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout /etc/apache2/ssl/apache.key -out /etc/apache2/ssl/apache.crt

   * Let's go over exactly what this means.
      * **openssl**: This is the basic command line tool provided by OpenSSL to create and manage certificates, keys, 
        signing requests, etc.
      * **req**: This specifies a subcommand for X.509 certificate signing request (CSR) management. X.509 is a public 
        key infrastructure standard that SSL adheres to for its key and certificate managment. Since we are wanting 
        to create a new X.509 certificate, this is what we want.
      * **-x509**: This option specifies that we want to make a self-signed certificate file instead of generating a 
        certificate request.
      * **-nodes**: This option tells OpenSSL that we do not wish to secure our key file with a passphrase. Having a 
        password protected key file would get in the way of Apache starting automatically as we would have to enter 
        the password every time the service restarts.
      * **-days 365**: This specifies that the certificate we are creating will be valid for one year.
      * **-newkey rsa:2048**: This option will create the certificate request and a new private key at the same time. 
        This is necessary since we didn't create a private key in advance. The rsa:2048 tells OpenSSL to generate an 
        RSA key that is 2048 bits long.
      * **-keyout**: This parameter names the output file for the private key file that is being created.
      * **-out**: This option names the output file for the certificate that we are generating.

You will be asked a number of questions.

The most important item that is requested is the line that reads "Common Name (e.g. server FQDN or YOUR name)". 
You should enter the domain name you want to associate with the certificate, or the server's public IP address 
if you do not have a domain name.

##

### Now, lets get started with the virtual hots for our domain name with https

Our root document (the main directory on which Apache will search our content to show) will be configured with individual 
directories within the **/var/www** path. We'll create our directories for our three virtual containers on different ports 
we want to configure.

  **1.** Open a terminal and type the following lines to create our directories to be configured
  
      sudo mkdir -p /var/www/point_3/spotify.com/public_html
      sudo mkdir -p /var/www/point_3/cga.com/public_html
      sudo mkdir -p /var/www/point_3/escom.com/public_html

_"/point_3" refers to the first task to be achieved so that we will create a individual directory for this using the -p flag_

If you are using some different user from root, you need to modify the current user read permissions over our created directories 
to be able of deploying their content. If you are not, go to the third step.

  **2.** Type the following line on the terminal
      
      sudo chown -R $USER:$USER /var/www/point_3/spotify.com/public_html
      
  _Do the same for the remaining directories_
  
  **3.** Use the following line to change the read permissions to our main directory

      sudo chmod -R 755 /var/www/point_3/
      
Now, our server has the necessary and corresponding permissions to deploy his content and to be edited by the current root user or other.

  **4.** Create a test page for each virtual container
  
   * Type the following lines to create and add some html content the test pages for each virtual container
            
            sudo nano /var/www/point_3/spotify.com/public_html/index.html
            
   * HTML content to be added
            
            <html>
              <head>
                <title>Bienvenido a spotify.com!</title>
              </head>
              <body>
                <h1>Éxito! El Virtual Host spotify.com esta funcionando!</h1>
              </body>
            </html>
            
  __** Do the same for the remaining directory ("cga.com" and "escom.com"), but not forget to change the content
  to show different pages.**__

The Virtual Host files contain specific information and configuration for each domain and tell to Apache how to respond
for specific requests from different domains with just one server.


  **5.** Create the configuration file for each virtual host corresponding to each domain name. The configuration file _domain_name.conf_ will be our main point to place the specific information so that Apache will use to knwo how to respond. We will create three of them for each of the corresponding three virtual hosts we want to enable on Apache.
  
   * Type the following line to create the file
        
          sudo nano /etc/apache2/sites-available/spotify.com.conf 
   
   * Add the following content to the file created
          
          <IfModule mod_ssl.c>
            <VirtualHost *:443>
              ServerAdmin admin@cga.com
              ServerName cga.com
              ServerAlias www.cga.com
              DocumentRoot /var/www/point_3/cga.com/public_html
              ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/point_3/cga.com/error.log
              CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/point_3/cga.com/access.log combined
              SSLEngine on
              SSLCertificateFile /etc/apache2/ssl/cga.crt
              SSLCertificateKeyFile /etc/apache2/ssl/cga.key
              <FilesMatch "\.(cgi|shtml|phtml|php)$">
                SSLOptions +StdEnvVars
              </FilesMatch>
              <Directory /usr/lib/cgi-bin>
                SSLOptions +StdEnvVars
              </Directory>
              BrowserMatch "MSIE [2-6]" \
                nokeepalive ssl-unclean-shutdown \
                downgrade-1.0 force-response-1.0
              BrowserMatch "MSIE [17-9]" ssl-unclean-shutdown
            </VirtualHost>
          </IfModule>
    
    * _You see that we added the following lines to match the key and certificate with the domain name_
          
          SSLEngine on
          SSLCertificateFile /etc/apache2/ssl/cga.crt
          SSLCertificateKeyFile /etc/apache2/ssl/cga.key
    
    * Save, exit 
    * Last, create a indivual directory to place the error log and access log corresponding to each domain name. It is very useful to pull apart every access.log and error.log with indivual directories for each one of your virtual hosts created. Here, we will create our directory for agua.com.
    
            sudo mkdir -p /var/log/apache2/point_3/spotify.com
            
    * _Do the same for the remaining sites (.com and refresco.com)_
    
    
  **6.** Then, you need to enable these sites by typing the follwing lines
      
      sudo a2ensite spotify.com.conf 
      sudo a2ensite cga.com.conf 
      sudo a2ensite escom.com.conf 
    
      
   You will need to reload Apache Server by typing the follwing line on terminal
        
        sudo service apache2 restart
  
  **7.** After that, you need to add some lines to your **/etc/hosts** file 
  
   * Open the /etc/apache2/ports.conf file by typing the following line. (this file correspondos to the ports Apache will be listen, this file is included in httpd.conf so that Apache can be modular for us to be configured with ease)
      
          sudo nano /etc/hosts
   
   * Then, add these lines to especify your IP address and the domain name to be mapped
   
           ...
           yourip    www.spotify.com
           yourip    www.cga.com
           yourip    www.escom.com
           ...
          
   Save and exit.
   
 **8.** Lastly, you only need to test entering each domain name on your browser. You will need to add the exception of the self-signed certificated. It is becuase the certificated we created is not validate for a Certificate Authority (CA)
          
      https://www.spotify.com
      https://www.cga.com
      https://www.escom.com
   
   
   
   
   
   
