
## 4. Customization of error pages

Prerequisite. [Apache Server 2.4.18 Installation](https://github.com/ddufale/Network-Services-Management/blob/master/Apache%202.4.18%20on%20Ubuntu%2016.04%20LTS/Install%20Apache%202.4.8.md)
##

Now, we just need to create some html pages to be configured as our erro rpages when the user type an incorrect url.
We'll configure the error pages for the first point on the task list, but it is the same process for eache point_x directory
we have created along this process.

  **1.** Open a terminal and type the following lines to create our sample pages to be configured
  
      sudo touch /var/www/point_1/agua.com/public_html/custom_404.html
      sudo touch /var/www/point_1/agua.com/public_html/custom_50x.html

_"/point_1" refers to the second task to be achieved so that we will create a individual directory for this_

If you are using some different user from root, you need to modify the current user read permissions over our created directories 
to be able of deploying their content. If you are not, go to the third step.

  **2.** Type the following line on the terminal
      
      sudo chown -R $USER:$USER /var/www/point_1/agua.com/public_html
      
  _Do the same for the remaining directories_
  
  **3.** Use the following line to change the read permissions to our main directory

      sudo chmod -R 755 /var/www/point_1/
      
Now, our server has the necessary permissions to deploy his content and to be edited by the current root user or other.

  **4.** Create a test error page for each virtual container
  
   * Type the follwoing lines to open and add some html content the test erros pages for each virtual container
            
            sudo nano /var/www/point_2/cerveza.com/public_html/index.html
            
   * HTML content to be added
            
            <html>
              <head>
                <title>Bienvenido a cerveza.com!</title>
              </head>
              <body>
                <h1 style='color:red'>Error 404: Not founds :-(</h1>
                <p>I have no idea where that file is, sorry.  Are you sure you typed in the correct URL?</p>
              </body>
            </html>
            
  __** Do the same for the remaining directory ("leche.com" and "refresco.com"), but not forget to change the content
  to show different pages.**__


  **5.** Edit the configuration file for each virtual host corresponding to each domain name
  
   * Type the following line to open the file
        
          sudo nano /etc/apache1/sites-available/agua.com.conf 
   
   * You have the following content
          
          <VirtualHost *:81>
            ServerAdmin admin@cerveza.com
            ServerName cerveza.com
            ServerAlias www.cerveza.com
            DocumentRoot /var/www/point_2/cerveza.com/public_html
            ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/point_2/cerveza.com/error.log
            CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/point_2/cerveza.com/access.log combined
          </VirtualHost>
          
    * You need to have at the end the following content
          
          <VirtualHost *:81>
            ServerAdmin admin@cerveza.com
            ServerName cerveza.com
            ServerAlias www.cerveza.com
            DocumentRoot /var/www/point_2/cerveza.com/public_html
            ErrorDocument 404 /custom_404.html
            ErrorDocument 500 /custom_50x.html
            ErrorDocument 502 /custom_50x.html
            ErrorDocument 503 /custom_50x.html
            ErrorDocument 504 /custom_50x.html
            <Files "custom_404.html">
              <If "-z %{ENV:REDIRECT_STATUS}">
                RedirectMatch 404 ^/custom_404.html$
              </If>
            </Files>
            <Files "custom_50x.html">
              <If "-z %{ENV:REDIRECT_STATUS}">
                RedirectMatch 404 ^/custom_50x.html$
              </If>
            </Files>
            ProxyPass /proxytest "http://localhost:9000"
            ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/point_2/cerveza.com/error.log
            CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/point_2/cerveza.com/access.log combined
          </VirtualHost>
    
    * Save, exit 
            
    * _do the same for the remaining sites (leche.com and refresco.com)_
    

##
However, we added an additional set of configurations so that our error pages cannot be requested directly by clients. 
This can prevent some strange situations where the text of a page references an error, but the http status is "200" 
(indicating a successful request).

**Respond with 404 When Error Pages are Directly Requested**

To implement this behavior, we needed to add a Files block for each of our custom pages. Inside, we can test whether 
the REDIRECT_STATUS environmental variable is set. This should only be set when the ErrorDocument directive processes 
a request. If the environmental variable is empty, we'll serve a 404 error.

**Set Up Testing for 500-Level Errors**

We can easily produce 404 errors to test our configuration by requesting content that doesn't exist. 
To test the 500-level errors, we'll have to set up a dummy proxy pass so that we can ensure that the 
correct pages are returned.

Add a ProxyPass directive to the bottom of the virtual host. Send requests for /proxytest to port 9000 on the local machine (where no service is running):
##

    
  **6.** Then, you need enable the following modules **proxy** and **proxy_http** by typing
  
              sudo a2enmod proxy
              sudo a2enmod proxy_http
        
   * Reload apache by typing the follwing
        
            sudo service apache2 reload
   
  **7.** Lastly, you only need to test with the browser entering each domain name and the corresponding port.
  
          http://server_domain_or_IP/thiswillerror
          http://server_domain_or_IP/proxytest
   
   
   
   
   
   
