## 3. Three web resources using HTTPS

* Prerequisites. 
   * [Apache Server 2.4.18 Installation](https://github.com/ddufale/Network-Services-Management/blob/master/Apache%202.4.18%20on%20Ubuntu%2016.04%20LTS/Install%20Apache%202.4.8.md)
   * All the directives and concepts could be read on the oficial [Apache website](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/), so that we will dispense with this knowledge trhough this step-by-step document.
   
##

Apache 2.4 version was built with the structure of modules to extend its capabilities. On this step-by-step we will configurate 
our Apache server and using the default modules intallation to achieve this taks of Log format and levels files.

## So. let's get started

Someone hosting a website on his machine for education purpose of hosting it in an comercial machine may want to configure his 
server to format his error and access log files to his website.

It aims to be more accurate and efficiently with his website performanceon the server. Apache server has the capability to do this
at some default point when you configure a virtual host. Previously, on the point 3 at the virtual host we configured you may see
some lines like:

      ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/point_3/cga.com/error.log
      CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/point_3/cga.com/access.log combined

Well, these lines define paths to place our error and access log to the corresponding domain name 
written in a customizable format, and may be written directly to a file, or to an external program.

**NOTE: The last argument for the second line defines the default format link on _/etc/apache2/apache2.conf_. Moreover, 
the log level is also define on the same apache2.conf (this level log could be changed by other levels. 
[see how to format and what levels are able](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/logs.html))**

On this step-by-step serie , we will create our Error and Access Log for cga.com domain name virtual host.

**1.** We simply need to create a directory to plave our logs files to pull apart each log files from other websites,
virtual hosts or even default log files.
 
   * Open a terminal and type the following line to create the log directory for cga.com on path **/var/log/apache**

          sudo mkdir -p /var/log/apache2/point_3/cga.com
          
**2.** Then, with the already both lines **ErrorLog** and **CustomLog** we just need to disable and enable the configuration
file to the corresponding website (cga.com.conf) from /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/. If you want to create some directory on 
different location just change the string on cga.com.conf from /etc/apache2/sites-available/.

  * Disable the cga.com.conf 
  
          sudo a2dissite cga.com.conf
          
  * Enable the cga.com.conf 
  
          sudo a2ensite cga.com.conf
          
  * Reload apache server
  
          sudo service apache2 reload
          
          
          
## You could read more about Format & Level Log File, [see](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/logs.html).

