
## 7. Automated operation summary by server

 * Prerequisites. 
   * [Apache Server 2.4.18 Installation](https://github.com/ddufale/Network-Services-Management/blob/master/Apache%202.4.18%20on%20Ubuntu%2016.04%20LTS/Install%20Apache%202.4.8.md)
   * All the directives and concepts could be read on the oficial [Apache website](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/), so that we will dispense with this knowledge trhough this step-by-step document.
   
   The Status module allows a server administrator to find out how well their server is performing. A HTML page is presented that gives the current server statistics in an easily readable form. If required this page can be made to automatically refresh (given a compatible browser). Another page gives a simple machine-readable list of the current server state.
   
   The details given are:

   1. The number of worker serving requests
   2. The number of idle worker
   3. The status of each worker, the number of requests that worker has performed and the total number of bytes served by the worker (*)
   4. A total number of accesses and byte count served (*)
   5. The time the server was started/restarted and the time it has been running for
   6. Averages giving the number of requests per second, the number of bytes served per second and the average number of bytes per request (*)
   7. The current percentage CPU used by each worker and in total by all workers combined (*)
   8. The current hosts and requests being processed (*)
   
   _**Note.** The lines marked "(*)" are only available if ExtendedStatus is On. In version 2.3.6, loading mod_status will toggle ExtendedStatus On by default._
   
## So. let's get started

##
  
  **1.** Enable Status Support
   
   * Open the **domain.com.conf** file from **/etc/apache2/sites-available** and add the subsequent lines within the 
   <VirtualHost> directive

	        <Location "/server-status">
              SetHandler server-status
              Require host domain.com
          </Location>
          
    * Save and exit.
You can now access server statistics by using a Web browser to access the page http://domain.com/server-status

##

  **2.** Automatic Updates
  
  * You can get the status page to update itself automatically if you have a browser that supports "refresh". Access the page http://domain.com/server-status?refresh=N to refresh the page every N seconds.
  
##

_**Note.** If you want set server-status in each domain, you must repeat and add in each configuration file._
